The thing that amazes me is that you had a clear feel for such a long time.
Yes.
It must amaze you.
I mean, I'm here for eight months in California thinking, gee, what a boy hears about it.
That's right.
That's exactly.
And you know what I heard?
I've never told anyone this before.
But as a matter of fact, after the guy had walked into Michael Slicker's shop, and before Michael Slicker had contacted me, Maury was in a shop.
Nope.
And he didn't mention it.
Maury is also friends of Michael Slicker.
Because he wasn't sure what it was, and he knew I was the expert, and Maury's a general dealer, also a Himalaya collector, but it just sort of slipped his mind.
Michael told me this one day, and you know, I just think, who's ever up there?
I'll tell you, but you might have put your thumb also on another thing.
Maury is known to try and beat the price down.
That may be part of it, you know?
I don't know, but... So it's luck.
You say it's luck?
Providence?
Yeah.
I know, yeah.
Had you bought from this guy before?
Oh, sure.
He had lived in Sacramento when he was younger.
The way I found out about him, when I was getting my license from the city of Sacramento to be a book dealer, you have to have a business license, the cashier said, oh, a rare book dealer.
I used to be married to a man who's an ex-book deal.
I said, oh, who's that?
I said, Michael Slicker.
He now lives in Florida.
Oh, that's great.
And so I wrote Michael Slicker a letter.
This is the ex-wife?
Yeah, this ex-wife.
There's a clerk with a sitter.
Oh, this is how you made the connection with Slicker.
He'd been sending me his catalogs, but I'd kind of forgotten about him.
So I sent him a long letter.
You know, remember me.
I'm still here as a serious Hemingway collector in Sacramento.
And if you ever come across any Hemingway, let me know.
And he would continue to send me his catalogs.
Where in Florida is Slicker?
I might have to call him.
St.
Petersburg.
No problems with my calling him to talk about this.
No, he's a really nice man.
Yeah, I think I will, because I'd kind of like a little bit of the other side.
Lighthouse Books and St.
Petersburg.
I think that kind of covers it, don't you think, Carl?
Can you just show us some of the things?
Yeah, sure.
Oh, yeah, I wanted to show you this.
You know, Hemingway asked Richard Armstrong to do all this research for him, right?
Oh, yeah, indeed.
Yeah, right.
So then we've got two letters, one six-type pages, one seven-type pages, in which he goes into intricate details about these political situations in Havana, Cuba, and some of this stuff comes up almost unchanged into have and have not.
That's pretty good.
That's significant.
Dynamite stuff.
That is.
Okay.
Okay, now I'll go back and show you the Hemingway.
Can we come?
Yeah.
We're in your Hemingway room, which is packed.
Everything here is Hemingway.
There's a blurb on a Nelson Algren paperback.
Now, you mentioned Hanneman.
Do you have all of Hanneman?
A and B, at least?
Yeah, I have the books.
Oh, sure.
And I have copies for sale.
What I'm saying for your own personal collection, because generally you'd follow Hanneman.
Oh, I certainly don't have to complete everything.
is in Hanneman, but the room is organized by Hanneman.
These are the A items.
And as you go around the room, you know, chronologically, the way they were published, this is his stuff.
Some of these must be for sale.
Yeah, they're all for sale.
I sell six or seven of these a year, ten of the old men in the sea a year, you know.
Like I said, I'm a major dealer in Hemingway.
Is this it or is that the reprint?
That's the reprint.
I've got the first in the other room.
That's a tough book to get with a jacket.
Yes, it is.
And this has nine stories in it.
You know, the Peter and the Griffon book, which was just published.
Two sides.
Is one of these a book of the month?
Yes, exactly.
This is the first.
And they've got them stories.
Have you ever seen this?
No.
This is the toughest.
We're talking about the Enduring Henley.
Customist item.
An anthology of a lifetime of minutes?
I don't even know it.
Yeah.
You see the book club all the time.
This is the book club.
I have two of the first edition at the price.
It's a Scrivener's, too, huh?
Yeah, it's a Scrivener's, but it just... I never... You're very, very seldom seeing it.
It's not an A item.
I believe it is, because I'll show you why.
It has one thing that's new.
It's an A item.
Exactly.
It's got the African story in it.
So it would be an A item.
There it is.
The African Journal.
First Book of Friends of Life.
That's 571 page.
571.
That's what I'm looking for.
So that's... This is nice.
Those are the poems.
Right.
And this is probably not an A.I.
But an interesting kind.
And then the first... This is his first book published in England.
This one.
Different title, right?
That's nice.
And this is...
real difficult of the British tradition.
I had the editor of this inscribe it from Garden of Eden, Tom Jenks.
Uh-huh.
That's nice.
That's one-third, you know, the original mass.
Right.
So he is actually kind of a collaborator.
Maybe he's an author.
Yeah.
Okay, so you get all the B items and then the translations and books about them and one over there.
And what do you estimate is in here, about 1,000 books maybe?
Oh, no.
No, I'd say 2,000.
Well, I don't figure that's, three shelves is 100.
They're double shelves.
I bet they're double shelves.
I don't know, maybe 2,000.
Okay.
2,000 items.
And it's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 9 bookcases, most of them double shelves, actually more than that.
There are two more.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.
So you have what amounts to 24 bookshelves worth of stuff.
Yeah.
And the Busters, where'd you get that?
What is that?
I got that.
Some dealer, a small book dealer in Southern California had it.
Right.
It's a numbered, I don't know who did it or when.
And you got all the magazine appearances.
Magazine appearances, right.
You see lying flat.
Yeah.
Okay.
I put out a Steinbeck list.
We call it Steinbeck.
Do you?
I specialize in Hemingway and Steinbeck.
Uh-huh.
And so, Nick Adams was incorporated and not incorporated, but registered?
No, it was Nick Adams and Company Rare Books.
Okay, and when did Nick Adams come into being?
Probably in 87.
Okay.
How come it took, if this deal was consummated two and a half years ago, how come it just broke six years ago, six months ago on the press?
Actually, I think it was about a year ago.
I've got copies of it.
You mean I've had that time story for a year?
Oh, this is a booklet, by the way.
Oh, that's nice.
It's Libris Renis Hemingway.
Matthew Bricoli, or Broccoli, or whatever his name is.
Broccoli.
Broccoli, okay.
Yeah, this is from him.
Morey was the dealer who had it.
It's quite wonderful.
Why don't you describe it for me?
Well, it has the Three Mountains, Three Mountain Press.
It's got a bull, though a man's on a horse.
It's got a scribe, quill pen.
Yeah, his name.
The middle, Ex Libra Serena Center.
Right, it's got a mountain stream, maybe Michigan.
Would you like to describe what that is?
This is an original photograph unpublished and a fragment of a letter at the bottom of it.
It's everything more than L-K-E-H.
I got another original photograph in the front room that someone asked if they could use for
frontispiece of a book, and I've got the book, and I'll show you when I go back out.
I'll show you the photograph of the book.
Yeah, it's a little organizing that needs to be done.
This is incredible.
These are four photographs.
I'll show you the original from which this was made, because it's kind of fun to see what
The art can do.
Now, this is what we started with, okay?
I went to professional photographer and said, make me ten copies.
So, this is one of the ten copies.
And then Peter Hayes asked if he could use one for his book, and I said, yes.
That's great.
And then he gave me credit back there.
Oh, that's nice.
Peter L. Hayes is out there, the limping hero, and he wrote this book, Ernest Temingway by Peter L. Hayes, and it's published by Continuum.
And a jacket photograph used with the kind of permission of David R. Meeker, owner of McAdams Bookstores.
Look at this wonderful picture of Martha.
Who is the woman?
Martha Geltman.
And this is at the Finca.
And that's in the front steps of the Finca.
And this is the back, the back porch kind of thing.
Be careful, be careful.
Okay.
And both of these are the back porch.
I said, is this your copy of the book?
And what did you say?
You said, it's mine.
Yeah, it's mine, and it's for sale.
And it's for sale.
$70,500.
Yeah, I have this made.
And this is his first book.
This is the second book.
In our time, the one we were just holding is the second book.
The very first.
Three stories and ten poems was his first book.
Three stories and ten poems.
And this is a wonderful copy of this.
I have sold a copy of this, another copy, this year.
But this is the best one I have.
And it has paper covers.
It's much more fragile.
And often you see it and it's really beat up.
But this is, I mean, it's a perfect copy.
This is almost a perfect copy.
It's unbelievable.
And this is 13,500.
Say again?
13,500.
Right.
May I just do that?
Oh, sure.
Oh, I've got to do it.
I'm now holding three stories and ten poems in the first book.
Oh, God, it's like an entry to me.
There he is.
I've held the Gutenberg Bible while we've been doing this.
Wow.
That's not about you.
And I sound like I held Samuel Pepys' diary.
Yeah.
He held a letter from George Washington the other day.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
How would you feel when you sell this?
There'll be a big gap.
I had a wonderful copy of The Sun Also Rises.
And one of the first... Theoretically, everything's for sale, right?
One of my core collections.
And this is the first time I took a book from my core collection down to the big book fair in Glendale.
And a dealer came by and bought it.
What did you feel?
I felt bad.
Also, $6,000 and since then, because it's the most sought-after item, in first condition, in Dust Jacket, they've sold as high as $15,000 uninscribed.
The Sunhouse Arise.
Even though there were, I think, 5,000 or 7,000 copies, and these are scarcer.
The Sun House Arises being his most popular in his first great novel, it's very, very difficult to find.
That's a seventh printing.
I've never, what's a seventh printing?
In your hand.
There is a seventh printing.
I've never seen the jacket before.
That's why I took it out.
Right.
But the first printing in Dutch's jacket is an extremely expensive book, and it's the only one that I've sold out of my core collection.
And not replaced.
I've always kind of felt kind of bad, you know, that I let that one go.
And I can't replace it.
You know, because I have to pay retail.
That's the point.
Right now, you maybe put price in maybe what might be considered too high with the hope that nobody will buy them.
I wish I'd done that.
But I didn't.
You know, some of these, in the business, in the book business, if you have a perfect copy, you can pretty much set your own price because the people who've been collecting a long time know that they're going to have to pay like that to get
You know, these are like perfect copies of his first two books.
In fact, his first, you know, I can't imagine that anywhere there exists a better copy of this book in that time we're talking about.
And you acquired these from all different places, right there?
Over the 23 years.
And paid a lot of money at the time and actually went selling for more, hopefully.
Now, what did your bank say when you went and said, did they ask you what you're borrowing the money for?
No, because I put a trust deed on a building, so they didn't know.
Basically, the building's worth it, you can get this much money on a building, so then I have to be able to make the payments.
They look at my credit report, they have to be able to make the payments on the loan I'm making.
And they're convinced I can do that, so they don't care what I do.
Was there ever any doubt in your mind that you should do this?
No.
I mean, maybe that's not the truth.
Yes, there was doubt in my mind, but there was never any doubt in my mind that I was going to do it.
if I could get this stuff.
I mean, I'm talking about this stuff.
I mean, it was basically, I'll pay what I have to pay to get it.
This is a once-in-a-lifetime thing.
I knew that every minute I was there.
And I just didn't want it to get away.
And for eight and a half months, it looked like it was going to get away.
If I were to take out my checkbook, and I'm not about to do this, and say, all right, I'll write you out a check for $17.50 for an hour time, what would you feel?
Well...
I've gone sometimes two and three years and never seen one for sale.
In the last year, the Bradley Martin sale at Sotheby's, there was an inscribed one that sold.
And I know of another one for sale right now.
But, you know, I'm not going to pay that kind of money for one because I'm in the business now.
And to be able to replace it, I don't know when, if ever, I'll have another one.
And the truth is, I bought and sold three stores and ten poems in this last year.
And I've sold two copies of a cup of gold and dust jacket, Steinbeck's first, in the last year.
And Pastors of Heaven, his second book.
So I'm in the business.
I have opportunities to buy collections and single books.
And so they come.
They generally say selling the first one is the toughest collector to a dealer.
And then once that's done, it's
Yeah, it's tiny.
I mean, if I ever sold this stuff, let me put it here.
When I sell this magnificent material, then, you know, I'm a whore, for sure.
You know, I'm not a collector any longer, right?
Do you mind if I use that quote?
No, that's okay.
I mean, really, if I come to use it, it won't surprise you to see it.
No.
Okay.
Do you make money as a book dealer?
Yes.
And, you know, obviously having a full-time job limits the time I can put into it.
On the other hand, I don't have to eat from the results of the book business.
So perhaps I'm not as conscientious as a businessman as someone who does.
But, yeah, I make money at it.
So it's not just an avocation.
And every year, the gross sales are more than a year before.
I've done 40,000 for the first six months of this year.
40,000 sales.
41,000.
That's pretty darn good.
I love book fairs.
The preparation, the work, you know, you work like a dog for two days preparing for a book fair and at the book fair.
But it's fun being at the fair with people who really like books.
and you know just that's i enjoyed it ended up buying and selling you know being there early and going to other dealers and buying books